#summary Memcached booth guide

*TENTATIVE NOTES*

[Advocacy From the Advocacy page]

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Organize =

== Group organizer ==

A single organizer must be end to end responsible for the group. It's required that the organizer inform the memcached mailing list of their intent to host a booth prior to registering with the convention. This is to rule out any possible duplication of effort, confusion, and help get more people involved earlier in the process.

== Paperwork ==

The event organizers should provide you with a timeline for booth space requests & let you know what information they need. Make sure you fill out forms on time, and keep copies for yourself. If you miss a form, you can end up without a booth. Depending on the booth, tax forms and other paperwork may be required as well.

The conference organizers should also send you (or make available on their website) the following information:

 * size of your booth (this will help you plan which displays are appropriate for the space)
 * number of tables & chairs provided/allowed
 * location of power & network drops
 * times you can access the event hall outside of event hours for setup/teardown 

== Booth staff ==

Recruit enough volunteers to keep at least 1-2, preferrably 2-3 people at the booth at all times. Do this at least several weeks beforehand. You will need to ensure the convention has enough vendor passes available for all folks who otherwise could not attend the conference.

= Prepare =

== Literature ==

Need to flesh this out.

== Swag ==

Floppies were awesome! Fliers are cool too. We have no use for paid stuff yet.

== Banners/Signs/etc ==

Etc.

== Demo ==

Notes notes.

= Executing =

== Setup and Takedown ==

Most venues will require you to "hand-carry" in your materials or pay through the nose for professional help. This means that your entire booth needs to break down into boxes and bags which can be carried by a regular-strength geek onto a standard escalator. Folding dollies, or wheeled luggage of a "carry-on" size are generally also allowed but full-size dollies seldom are. 

== Uniform ==

Wear memcached.org-related clothing if available. Otherwise branding commercial competitors of memcached is not allowed.

== Supplies ==

Don't forget tape and stuff (TBD)