#summary Client API's / libraries

= C / C++ =

libmemcached 
 * http://tangent.org/552/libmemcached.html by Brian Aker
  * BSD license. This is a new library, under heavy development.

libmemcache 
 * http://people.freebsd.org/~seanc/libmemcache by Sean Chittenden
  * BSD license. This is the original C library. It is no longer under active development. You should try libmemcached instead.

apr_memcache 
 * http://www.outoforder.cc/projects/libs/apr_memcache by Paul Querna
  * Apache Software License version 2.0 (doesn't appear to be actively maintained since 2005)

memcacheclient
 * http://code.jellycan.com/memcacheclient (cross-platform, but primary focus on Windows

libketama 
 * http://www.last.fm/user/RJ/journal/2007/04/10/rz_libketama (the original consistent hashing algorithm from last.fm)

= PHP =

[PHPClientComparison Comparison of PECL/memcache and PECL/memcached]

PECL/memcached 
 * http://pecl.php.net/package/memcached (wraps libmemcached)
  * pear install pecl/memcached
  * Announcement: http://gravitonic.com/2009/01/new-memcached-extension

PECL/memcache 
 * http://pecl.php.net/package/memcache
 * [http://www.php.net/manual/en/book.memcache.php php memcached docs]

PHP libmemcached 
 * http://github.com/kajidai/php-libmemcached/tree/master (wraps libmemcached)

= Java =

spymemcached 
 * http://code.google.com/p/spymemcached 
  * An improved Java API maintained by Dustin Sallings. 
  * Aggressively optimised, ability to run async, supports binary protocol, etc. See site for details. 

Java memcached client 
 * http://www.whalin.com/memcached 
  * A Java API is maintained by Greg Whalin from Meetup.com. 

More Java memcached clients
 * http://code.google.com/p/javamemcachedclient
 * http://code.google.com/p/memcache-client-forjava
 * http://code.google.com/p/xmemcached

Integrations
 * http://code.google.com/p/simple-spring-memcached
 * http://code.google.com/p/memcached-session-manager

= Python =

python-memcached 
 * http://www.tummy.com/Community/software/python-memcached/

pooling wrapper class 
 * http://jehiah.cz/download/MemcachePool.py.txt for use in multi-threaded applications

Python libmemcached
 * http://code.google.com/p/python-libmemcached (libmemcached wrapper)

cmemcache (Note: this library is deprecated, old, buggy, you should *not* use it).
 * http://gijsbert.org/cmemcache/index.html

Django's caching framework works with memcached
 * http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/cache/

Twisted python client
 * http://python.net/crew/mwh/apidocs/twisted.protocols.memcache.html

= Ruby =

cache_fu Rails plugin works with memcached
 * http://github.com/defunkt/cache_fu/tree/master
 * http://errtheblog.com/posts/57-kickin-ass-w-cachefu
 * http://blog.onmylist.com/articles/2007/06/15/memcached-and-cache_fu

memcache-client 
 * http://dev.robotcoop.com/Libraries/memcache-client/index.html (pure Ruby)
 * http://seattlerb.rubyforge.org/memcache-client/
 * http://www.freshports.org/databases/rubygem-memcache-client

Ruby-MemCache 
 * http://www.deveiate.org/projects/RMemCache (pure Ruby)

fauna 
 * http://blog.evanweaver.com/files/doc/fauna/memcached (compiled, wraps libmemcached)

caffeine 
 * http://rubyforge.org/projects/adocca-plugins (compiled, wraps libmemcached, no license)

More info:
 * [http://nubyonrails.com/articles/memcached-basics-for-rails Memcached basics for rails]
 * [http://zilkey.com/2008/7/5/rails-cache-memcached-development-mode-and-offline-cache-invalidation Rails and memcached while developing your app]

= Perl =

Cache::Memcached 
 * http://search.cpan.org/dist/Cache-Memcached

Cache::Memcached::Fast 
 * http://search.cpan.org/dist/Cache-Memcached-Fast

Perl libmemcached wrapper
 * http://code.google.com/p/perl-libmemcached (libmemcached wrapper)

Cache::Memcached-compatible perl libmemcached wrapper wrapper (heh)
 * http://search.cpan.org/dist/Cache-Memcached-libmemcached/

= Windows / .NET =

.Net memcached client 
 * https://sourceforge.net/projects/memcacheddotnet

.Net 2.0 memcached client 
 * http://www.codeplex.com/EnyimMemcached
 * Client developed in .NET 2.0 keeping performance and extensibility in mind. (Supports consistent hashing.)
 * http://www.codeplex.com/memcachedproviders

BeIT Memcached Client (optimized C# 2.0) 
 * http://code.google.com/p/beitmemcached

jehiah
 * http://jehiah.cz/projects/memcached-win32

= MySQL =

MySQL user data functions for memcached 
 * http://tangent.org/586/Memcached_Functions_for_MySQL.html

MySQL Engine 
 * http://tangent.org/index.pl?node_id=507 (MySQL plugin to make MySQL store data in memcached. The memcache_engine allows memcache to work as a storage engine to MySQL. This means that you can SELECT/UPDATE/INSERTE/DELETE from it as though it is a table in MySQL.)

= PostgreSQL =

pgmemcache 
 * http://pgfoundry.org/projects/pgmemcache The pgmemcache project allows you to access memcache servers from Postgresql Stored Procedures and Triggers.

= Erlang =

erlmc
 * [http://github.com/JacobVorreuter/erlmc]
 * [http://jacobvorreuter.com/erlang-binary-protocol-memcached-client]

merle
 * [http://github.com/joewilliams/merle/tree/master merle, an erlang memcached client]

erlangmc
 * http://code.google.com/p/erlangmc

higepon's memcached client
 * http://github.com/higepon/memcached-client

Zhou Li's memcached client
 * http://github.com/echou/memcached-client


https://github.com/EchoTeam/mcd

= Lua =

http://luamemcached.luaforge.net

= Lisp dialects = 

http://common-lisp.net/project/cl-memcached

http://chicken.wiki.br/memcached

http://weblambda.blogspot.com/2009/09/develop-memcached-client-4-bzlibdbd.html

= !ColdFusion =

http://memcached.riaforge.org

= OCaml =

 * http://d.hatena.ne.jp/gtaka555/20080727/p1
 * http://tategakibunko.blog83.fc2.com/blog-entry-170.html

= Io =

http://github.com/iamaleksey/memcached-client-io/tree/master - libmemcached based

= Protocol =

To write a new client, check out the [MemcacheBinaryProtocol binary protocol docs] and [http://code.sixapart.com/svn/memcached/trunk/server/doc/protocol.txt ascii protocol docs]. Be aware that the most important part of the client is the hashing across multiple servers, based on the key, or an optional caller-provided hashing value. Feel free to join the mailing list for help and/or a link to your client from this site.

= Archive / Old  =

Danga Interactive list of clients http://www.danga.com/memcached/apis.bml

http://dealnews.com/developers/memcached.html - fastest client implementations (2006), obsoleted as more languages wrap the C-based libmemcached client library.