#summary memcached development roadmap

= Introduction =

The memcached development model aims to have regular updates for stable releases (dot-even) and regular builds available for development releases (dot-odd).  

== Proposed Release Cycle ==

  * 3 weeks after each new stable release, we release -rc1 for the next release.
  * New -rc's will be kicked out daily or bidaily if there are fixes.
  * After 1 week in RC, unless there are still bug reports coming in, stable is released.

This should lead to a stable release roughly once per month. Exceptions
can be made, as usual. Major bug finds, of course, warrant earlier releases. 
Cycles with large code changes all at once might warrant
an earlier cut to -rc1 and a 2-3 week -rc cycle, but the goal is to have about 
a month between releases.

The release may be done by any of the core committers to memcached, but the process requires separation of contribution and review (i.e. the author does not commit/review their own changes).  

= Near Term Roadmap =

== Updates to 1.4 ==

  * 1.4.1
    * fix to reported crash
    * fix for exploit, [http://www.debian.org/security/2009/dsa-1853 reported on Debian] (though running as root has never been recommended)

  * 1.4.2
    * bug fixes
    * [http://mysql-ha.com/post/63 pandora build] support
      * this will initially be a copy-in to memcached tree, may get to some kind of submodule work for the pandora build macros
      * requires fixing a number of warnings to complete

_Related_: additional test language support _or_ external test support<br/>
The goal here is to allow for the ease of increasing test coverage.  Since we may not want to increase dependencies for tests in memcached itself, it may make sense to have a separate subproject with more test coverage.

_Related_: contrib updated packages to distros (universe/EPEL?)

== Development Branch: 1.5 ==

There have been experiments and done in 1.3.x for several features which should be in a 1.5 development branch soon.  

  * Restructure the tree.
  * Add storage engine support.
    * The first update would be refactoring without external API support.  This _could_ be considered for putback to a 1.4 update.
    * The goal is to be able to support experiments, specific features and protocol extensions
      * Example: SASL support
  * protocol extension support
    * think mod_auth for type of mechanism to add to core
    * want to be sure they're async friendly
    * want to be sure runtime configuration is 
    * one example goal here is SASL (in binary only, text is much more work)
    * partitioned slabber support
  * features
    * tagging 
    * constant time regex invalidation 

1.6 
  * Stable release of 1.5 development features:
    * Engine API