#summary Using the Source, Luke

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Why Build From Source =

Before you build from source, consider why? If you have a perfectly good package of a recent version, you're better off using that.

= Building From Source =
== Prereqs ==
You'll likely need to install libevent-devel
 * *Ubuntu:* {{{apt-get install libevent-devel}}}
 * *Redhat/Fedora:* {{{yum install libevent-devel}}}
== Get ==
{{{
wget http://memcached.org/latest
tar -zxvf memcached-1.x.x.tar.gz
cd memcached-1.x.x
}}}

== Config ==
=== Optional install destination ===
If your compiling from source you likely want to specify a destination directory as well, replace {{{/usr/local/memcached}}} with whatever you fancy.
{{{
./configure --prefix=/usr/local/memcached
}}}
== Make and install ==
{{{
make && make test
sudo make install
}}}

If you wish to build with SASL support, ensure the cyrus-sasl libraries are built and run `./configure --enable-sasl`. See the [SASLHowto] for more information.

= To Build a Package, or `make install` ? =

If you're deploying memcached to more than one server, you probably really want to package it. That way you may have cleaner updates, easy uninstalls, easy re-installs, future installs, etc. `make install` is for developers and chumps.

== Building an RPM ==

The memcached source tarball has contained a workable .spec file. To use it, create a build directory for RPM and compile memcached using the commands below. *Do not* run this as root, as tests will not pass.
{{{
echo "%_topdir /home/you/rpmbuild" >> ~/.rpmmacros
mkdir -p /home/you/rpmbuild/{SPECS,BUILD,SRPMS,RPMS,SOURCES}
wget http://memcached.org/latest
rpmbuild -ta memcached-1.x.x.tar.gz
}}}
You will need gcc and libevent-devel installed. (`yum install gcc libevent libevent-devel`)

Then install the RPM via a standard `rpm -Uvh memcached-etc.rpm`

== Building a deb ==

TODO: this section

= Building clients =

Note that many clients depend on [http://libmemcached.org libmemcached]. They either include it in their sources, or require an external build. You can follow the above practices for fetching and installing libmemcached as well.

== PEAR/CPAN/GEM/etc ==

If you're building from source, especially remember that most major languages have distribution systems which make installation easy.