#summary Release notes for Release 1.4.5

= Memcached 1.4.5 Release Notes =

Date: 2010-04-03

== Download ==

Download Link:

http://memcached.googlecode.com/files/memcached-1.4.5.tar.gz


== Overview ==

This is a maintenance release with some build fixes, doc fixes, and
one new stat.


== Fixes ==

  * Properly detect CPU alignment on ARM. bug100
  * Remove 1MB assertion. bug 119
  * More automake versions supported.
  * Compiler warning fixes for OpenBSD.
  * potential buffer overflow in vperror
  * Report errors opening pidfiles using vperror


== New Features ==


=== New stat: reclaimed ===
This stat reports the number of times an entry was stored using memory
from an expired entry.


=== sasl_pwdb for more simple auth deployments ===

--enable-sasl-pwdb allows memcached to use it's own password file and
verify a plaintext password.
    
The file is specified with the environment variable
MEMCACHED_SASL_PWDB, and is a plain text file with the following
syntax:
    
{{{
username:password
}}}

Please note that you have to specify "mech_list: plain" in your sasl
config file for this to work.
    
Ex:

{{{
   echo "mech_list: plain" > memcached.conf
   echo "myname:mypass" > /tmp/memcached-sasl-db
   export MEMCACHED_SASL_PWDB=/tmp/memcached-sasl-db
   export SASL_CONF_PATH=`pwd`/memcached.conf
   ./memcached -S -v
}}}

and you should be able to use your favorite memcached client with sasl
support to connect to the server.
    
(Please note that not all SASL implementations support
SASL_CB_GETCONF, so you may have to install the sasl config
(memcached.conf) to the systemwide location)


== Contributors ==

The following people contributed to this release since 1.4.4.

Note that this is based on who contributed changes, not how they were
done.  In many cases, a code snippet on the mailing list or a bug
report ended up as a commit with your name on it.

Note that this is just a summary of how many changes each person made
which doesn't necessarily reflect how significant each change was.
For details on what led up into a branch, either grab the git repo and
look at the output of `git log 1.4.4..1.4.5` or use a web view.

  * Repo list:  http://code.google.com/p/memcached/wiki/DevelopmentRepos
  * Web View: http://github.com/memcached/memcached/commits/1.4.5

{{{
    6  Trond Norbye
    3  Paul Lindner
    2  Dustin Sallings
    1  Brad Fitzpatrick
    1  Jørgen Austvik
}}}


== Control ==