#summary Release notes for Release 1.4.6

= Memcached 1.4.6 Release Notes =

Date: 2011-07-15

== Download ==

Download Link:

http://memcached.googlecode.com/files/memcached-1.4.6.tar.gz


== Overview ==

This is a maintenance release with some build fixes, many small bug fixes, and
a few major bug fixes. incr/decr are now actually atomic, and a crash with
hitting the max connection limit while using multiple interfaces has been
fixed.


== Fixes ==

  * Gcc on Solaris sparc wants -R and not -rpath
  * Issue 121: Set the runtime path when --with-libevent is used
  * Fix autogen failure when unable to find supported command.
  * fix race crash for accepting new connections 
  * fix incr/decr race conditions for binary prot 
  * fix incr/decr race conditions for ASCII prot 
  * Compile fix (-Werror=unused-but-set-variable warnings) 
  * Bind each UDP socket to an a single worker thread in multiport env 
  * Add support for using multiple ports 
  * Issue 154: pid file out of sync (created before socket binding) 
  * Issue 163: Buggy mem_requested values 
  * Fix cross compilation issues in configure 
  * Issue 140 - Fix age for items stats 
  * Issue 131 - ChangeLog is outdated 
  * Issue 155: bind to multiple interface 
  * Issue 161 incorrect allocation in cache_create 
  * Fix type-punning issues exposed with GCC 4.5.1 
  * Simplify stats aggregation code 
  * Reverse backward expected/actual params in test 
  * Issue 152: Fix error message from mget 
  * Refuse to start if we detect libevent 1.[12] 
  * Fix compilation issue on Solaris 9 wrt isspace() macro - Resolves issue 111 


== New Features ==

=== Multiple port binding ===

You may now specify multiple addresses by listing -l multiple times.

== Contributors ==

The following people contributed to this release since 1.4.5.

Note that this is based on who contributed changes, not how they were
done.  In many cases, a code snippet on the mailing list or a bug
report ended up as a commit with your name on it.

Note that this is just a summary of how many changes each person made
which doesn't necessarily reflect how significant each change was.
For details on what led up into a branch, either grab the git repo and
look at the output of `git log 1.4.5..1.4.6` or use a web view.

  * Repo list:  http://code.google.com/p/memcached/wiki/DevelopmentRepos
  * Web View: http://github.com/memcached/memcached/commits/1.4.6

{{{
    13  Trond Norbye
     6  dormando
     5  Dan McGee
     2  Paul Lindner
     1  Jon Jensen
     1  nirvanazc
}}}


== Control ==
