#summary Release Notes for Release 1.3.3

= Memcached 1.3 Beta 3 Release Notes =

Date: 2009-03-11 Wed

== Features ==

=== Can set listen backlog on the commandline. ===

Prevent connection refused during connection storms at the cost of
kernel memory.

=== stats settings ===

Show all current server settings (useful for troubleshooting as well
as internal verification).

== Bug fixes ==

  * Alignment bug in binary stats (bug26)
  * Occasional buffer overflow in stats (bug27)
  * Try to recycle memory more aggressively. (bug14)
  * incr validation (bug31)
  * 64-bit incr/decr delta fixes (bug21)
  * ascii UDP set (bug36)
  * stats slabs' used chunks (bug29)
  * stats reset should reset item stats, eviction counters, etc... (bug22)

== Misc ==
  * More tests
  * More/better documentation
  * Code cleanup

== Stable fixes from Dormando ==

=== New Stats ===

==== accepting_conns ====

1 or 0 to indicate whether the server is currently accepting
connections or not.

The server will stop accepting connections when it has as many as it's
configured to take.

==== listen_disabled_num ====

The number of times socket listeners were disabled due to hitting the
connection limit.

==== cmd_flush ====

The number of times the flush command was issued.

=== missing key debugging ===

With verbosity enabled, you can see *why* objects were not found.  In
many cases, an item exists under a given key, but is considered
invalid due to lazy expiration or flush.

=== tail repair ===

There is a rare, unidentified reference leak that causes a slab to be
full of invalid objects that cannot be evicted via the LRU nor will
they expire on their own.

Tail repair is a strategy by which we forcefully evict objects that
are marked as ``in-use'' (that is, in-flight or otherwise being used),
but haven't been accessed in a long time (currently three hours).

There is an additional stat that comes along with this (tailrepairs on
a slab) that will allow you to detect that this condition has occurred
on one of your slabs.

=== socket listen bugs ===

There were some issues listening to sockets on machines with different
network interface configurations (i.e. no network, only ipv4, only
ipv6, etc...).

== Contributors ==

The following people contributed to this release since 1.3.2.  Please
refer to the 1.3.2 release notes for more info:

ReleaseNotes133

{{{
    27  Dustin Sallings
     7  Trond Norbye
     5  Brad Fitzpatrick
     5  dormando
     4  Steve Yen
     1  Eric Lambert
     1  Chris Goffinet
     1  Clinton Webb
}}}