#summary memcached Documentation
#labels Featured
#sidebar TableOfContents

= General =
 * [FAQ] - get started here
 * [HowTo How To's]
 * [Tutorials]
 * [ReleaseNotes] Release notes for recent versions.
 * [Resources] - links to outside articles

 * [Clients Client API's] - Client libraries for your favorite programming language

 * [HowToLearnMoreScalability Learn more about scalability]

== Production Support ==

 * [http://www.mysql.com/products/enterprise/memcached.html Production Support for Memcached from Sun Microsystems]

== Communication ==

 * [http://groups.google.com/group/memcached Mailing list]
 * [http://lists.danga.com/mailman/listinfo/memcached Old Mailing List Archive]
 * IRC - irc.freenode.net #memcached
 * [Advocacy]
 * [Hackathons]
 * [Aug2009DrizzleNotes Notes from Drizzle Developer Days]

= Server ports to other platforms =

memcached was originally created and maintained for the Linux OS.
 * [http://www.lullabot.com/articles/setup-memcached-mamp-sandbox-environment Mac OS X] (also try [http://www.macports.org/ Mac Ports])
 * [PlatformWindows Windows]
 * [http://blogs.sun.com/trond/entry/memcached_in_solaris Solaris]

= Development =

 * [DevelopmentRepos Development / Source Code repositories]
 * [DevelopmentRoadmap Development Roadmap]
 * [BuildFarm Build Farm]
 * [MemcachedInternals Memcached Internals] 

== Wire Protocols ==
 * [http://github.com/memcached/memcached/blob/master/doc/protocol.txt text protocol] - current memcached networking protocol
 * [MemcacheBinaryProtocol binary protocol] - forthcoming, optional protocol in development
  * [http://www.slideshare.net/tmaesaka/memcached-binary-protocol-in-a-nutshell-presentation/ slides on the binary protocol] by Toru Maesaka (2008)

=== Subprotocols ===

 * [RangeOps Range operations]
 * [SASLAuthProtocol SASL Authentication]

== Engine Interface ==
 * [EngineInterface Engine interface] - Proposal for the pluggable storage engine interface

== Proposals ==

 * [ProposalTagSupport Tag Support]
 * [ProposalCrossCompatClients Cross Compatible Client Discussion]

= QA =

 * [TestSuites Test Suites]

== Tools ==

 * [Tools Tools]

== Contributing to the Wiki ==

Anyone's free to contribute. Due to spam issues and trying to consolidate product pages, wiki edits now require authorization. Don't be let down though! We want your content/corrections and getting in changes is trivial!

First:

 * Think up something to change!

Then:

 * Send it to the mailing list!

Someone will chuck it into the wiki or refine it until it can be in short order. If you contribute a few good changes, we'll grant you membership so you can do further edits on your own. Or just ask up front for acess. Whatever you want.