#summary memcached related tools

= Introduction =

This page is the place to go for all things related memcached tools.  Not much here now, but more to come. If you have something you want to add, drop a line to the mailing list and we'll get it here.

= List of Interesting Memcached Tools =

   * cacti-templates: Templates that let you use cacti to monitor your memcached instances.
      * http://code.google.com/p/mysql-cacti-templates/wiki/MemcachedTemplates
      * http://dealnews.com/developers/cacti/memcached.html
   * dormando's awesome memcached top
      * http://github.com/dormando/damemtop
   * mem-top: A command-line tool that grabs real-time stats from memcache.
      * http://code.google.com/p/memcache-top
   * Munin plugin: Graphs of traffic/items/memory/etc via Munin 
      * https://github.com/mhwest13/Memcached-Munin-Plugin" :D
   * Wireshark now understands memcached binary protocol.
      * [http://www.wireshark.org/download/automated]
   * A plugin for wireshark that understands the textual protocol.
      * [http://dev.gear6.com/downloads/wireshark-memcache-protocol-dissector]
   * Maatkit's mk-query-digest understands the textual protocol and can do advanced analysis of the queries.
      * [http://www.maatkit.org/doc/mk-query-digest.html]
   * Windows powershell frontend to memcached
      * http://mempowered.codeplex.com/
   * brutis: A tool designed to exercise memcache instances.
      * http://code.google.com/p/brutis
   * statsproxy: A tool that allows you to use your web browser to get real-time stats for your memcached servers instead of or in addition to the standard memcached telnet interface.
      * http://code.google.com/p/statsproxy
   * AdvancedReporter: a stats tool for memcached which provides information about the most active clients and object keys for your memcached servers.
      * http://code.google.com/p/advancedreporter