#summary Welcome to the memcached wiki
#labels Featured

The official memcached site is at http://www.danga.com/memcached

 * [http://www.socialtext.net/memcached/index.cgi?hackathon Hackathons] - Proposed dates and topics on the proposed hackathons are now posted. Also, find notes from previous hackathons.
 * [http://www.danga.com/memcached/download.bml Downloads]
 * [Clients] - List of Client APIs in various languages
 * Ports
  * [http://www.socialtext.net/memcached/index.cgi?windows Windows] - memcached on Windows

== FAQ / How To's / Tutorials ==

 * [FAQ] - We're starting a FAQ here
 * [http://www.socialtext.net/memcached/index.cgi?memcached_client_faq Memcached Client FAQ] - Questions and Answers specific to client authors and cross-compat client behavior.
 * How To's
   * [HowToSessions Sessions] - How to store sessions in memcached
 * Tutorials
   * [TutorialCachingStory This is a Story of Caching] - A tutorial in story form that may help you understand how to use memcached.
 * [WhyNotMemcached Why not use Memcached]?

== Links ==

 * Subversion repository - http://code.sixapart.com/svn/memcached
 * Wikipedia Entry - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memcached
 * PECL Installation - http://pecl.php.net/package/memcache
 * Memcachedb http://code.google.com/p/memcachedb - A distributed key-value storage system designed for persistent, based on memcached, tugela and bdb.

== Articles ==

 * [http://linuxjournal.com/article/7451 LinuxJournal article by Brad Fitzpatrick] (2004) 
 * [http://www.slideshare.net/vishnu/livejournals-backend-a-history-of-scaling LiveJournal's Backend A History of Scaling]
 * [http://highscalability.com/bunch-great-strategies-using-memcached-and-mysql-better-together fotolog's memcached usage and patterns] (2008)
   * [http://mashraqi.com/2008/07/memcached-for-mysql-advanced-use-cases_09.html Memcached for Mysql Advanced Use Cases] by Farhan Mashraqi of Fotolog, 2008
 * [http://www.mysqlperformanceblog.com/2006/09/27/apc-or-memcached APC or Memcached Article - MySQL Performance Blog] (2006)
 * [http://www.slideshare.net/acme/scaling-with-memcached Scaling with memcached] (slides) 
 * [http://www.bytebot.net/blog/archives/2008/04/14/memcached-and-mysql-tutorial Memcached and Mysql tutorial] (2008)
   * [http://download.tangent.org/talks/Memcached%20Study.pdf Memcached Study slides] by Brian Aker and dormando, 2008

== Mailing Lists ==

 * http://groups.google.com/group/memcached
  * mailing list for developers and users

== IRC ==

 * irc.freenode.net #memcached

== Proposals ==

 * [http://www.socialtext.net/memcached/index.cgi?tagsupport Tagging] - Collections and thoughts from the ML about how to do tags in memcached
 * [http://www.socialtext.net/memcached/index.cgi?cross_platform_serialisation_support Cross Platform Serialisation Support] - Collections and thoughts from the ML about how to provide a mechanism for cross-platform serialisation support

== Wiki ==

Please feel free to add or modify pages -- even this one -- as you see fit. That's the idea of a wiki.  (Hmmm, google code wiki seems to want a google id/login and project membership first - apologies until we figure it out.  Please try the mailing list!)

For history: here's the [http://www.socialtext.net/memcached/index.cgi?memcached old memcached wiki] (pre-september 2008)